SHIELD
A powerful open-source NPPoS (Non-Profit Proof of Stake) biosphere software for vetting and voting.

v1.0 (BETA) SPECS:

THE UI
Needs to be simple, github style perhaps. The main function of the UI is to display the list of open and passed proposals, polls and issues.

In this regard, it needs to display simple information for each post like:

Post type (issue, poll or proposal)
Post title
Post image (link to an image uploaded on the server - when you create the post you can upload one)
Post description
Post tags
Post date
Username (author)
Countdown (til it expires)
Buttons to vote on the issue or proposal
A button to show a form that will be used to post a proposal, poll or issue. Clicking it will display a form with inputs to send all the necessary data to the backend.

THE API
The API and storage will be moved to a blockchain eventually.

At the moment, we will not be using any database, for the versatility, longevity and flexibility of the project, to begin with we will instead use JSON files to store each issue or proposal and the results for each will be updated in each file. We need to pay extra attention to security for this API, we will add 2 layers of validation for the input data:

Validation on the form when a member submits a post, limiting the number and type of characters for example on each input element.
Validation on the backend using a module like Joi, again limiting the data to certain type of data and size of it, for each parameter / value supplied.
The API will have the following methods:

GET
POST
UPDATE
The user file
Every time a user posts an issue or a proposal, the first thing we do is to check with FS module if the a file named exactly as the username posting exists, if it does, we add to it, if it doesn't we create it.

The json file data structure looks like this:

[
{
"post-title": "The post title", // if it's a poll, this will be an array with multiple titles
"post-image": "url-to-image", // if it's a poll, this will be an array with multiple image URLs
"post-description": "A very detailed description",
"post-date": "Date format either the standard in JS or UNIX",
"post-tags": "tag1, tag2, tag3",
"votes": [4,0],  // this is an array because it needs to cover the possibility of multiple choice voting
"members": 6,
"status": "expired"
},
{
"post-title": "The post title", // if it's a poll, this will be an array with multiple titles
"post-image": "url-to-image", // if it's a poll, this will be an array with multiple image URLs
"post-description": "A very detailed description",
"post-date": "Date format either the standard in JS or UNIX",
"post-tags": "tag1, tag2, tag3",
"votes": [0,0],  // this is an array because it needs to cover the possibility of multiple choice voting
"members": 6,
"status": "active",
}
]
We check on page reload if the issues/proposals of each user is older than 1 month, then:

We count the number of votes for each item in the user file, we compare it against the total number of SHIELD members from the item key "members".

If 1 month has passed for any item. We calculate this on front-end based on "post-date" - then, on any user page load we do an update and set the status key to "ended" for the respective item and do the math for the results on the front-end, based on the item data.

Binary vote:

We can set it to "ended" or "nope" when the votes are >= 50% +1 for one option (only after the month since posted expires).
Multiple options vote:

We can set it to "ended" after the month since posted expires, whichever option has the most votes wins.
Authentication
Authentication will be done using the Proton web SDK, the user will use the mobile wallet to authenticate.

Documentation for it is available here: https://docs.protonchain.com/client-sdks/web.html

This authentication SDK will be used for BiiP (Biospheric Identity Internet Protocol) as well.

Memberships
For the membership system we will have a JSON file with all members with the following structure:

[
{"user": "catalina", "staked": 100, "type": "visionary", "expiration": "date", "status": "active"},
{"user": "maria", "staked": 1, "type": "guardian", "expiration": "date", "status": "expired"}
]
Every time a user sends the right amount of tokens to the SHIELD wallet, we check all their TX or transactions received from their user to the SHIELD wallet and see if the total amount is correct and if the staking date is less than 6 months old for GUARDINS and 12 months for VISIONARY - compared to the current date.

We do this check on every page reload.

After a membership expires we return all the tokens staked by the user to the user account.